In the last lecture we saw how we can add a validator and which information we get,
now let's work on the user experience.
I'm going to get rid of this $v output below the part and instead, I want to style the
input differently
if it is invalid. For this, you can of course use any styling rule you want, whatever fits your needs.
What I'll do is I conditionally want to add a class to the wrapping div which contains both my label
and my input
if this is invalid,
so here I'll bind class with colon class
and I want to bind it to a javascript object where I set the invalid property and therefore css
class if $v.email.$error or is true, error and not invalid because error also takes
into account whether the user had a chance to edit the value or not,
so whether the form is touched or not.
Now that alone won't do much or at least we won't see much,
so in order to see something, I also should prepare an invalid style.
So I'll scroll down to my scoped styles here and I'll add a new style below
all these input stylings here, maybe here,
the position doesn't really matter
and if we have the input class which is on the wrapping div and this also has the invalid class,
so there is no whitespace between these two classes,
then any input which is nested inside of this should receive a border which is one pixel solid and
red and let's say a background color of some light red,
so maybe let's pick this rosey, salmon color here, whatever you like, this
is the value for an invalid input.
And I also want to style the label differently,
so I'll copy the rule and also style any label in such an input group, there
I don't want to style border or background color,
instead I want to style the text color and set it to red.
If we now save this updated styling and we go back, you see everything looks normal
but if I type here and I enter t, you see now it becomes invalid because now it was touched but it is invalid.
If I complete this to a valid value though, it's gone,
so now we give the user some visual feedback only once he had a chance to do something though, not when
the page first loads, as you can see and that of course is a good user experience.
Now we can also add a user or an error message,
so below this email input we could add a paragraph where we say please provide a valid email address
and then we could check if we want to show this with v-if and we could either show it if
$v.email.$error is true,
so in any error case, we would now also show this message,
so as soon as I start typing here, we see that message.
We could also only show this if it's an invalid e-mail though so that we don't show it just because
the field is empty but only if it's an invalid e-mail address.
This could be done if we actually check e-mail, referring to this e-mail rule now is not true because
you saw in the last lecture that this is true if it is valid, so not true means it's not valid.
Now you see if this is page reloads and I start typing and reverse this,
now you don't see the error message even though an error is there,
if I fill something in though, which also is an invalid email address, I get this error message.
So you can fine tune this to your need and you could of course therefore also output multiple messages like
this field must not be empty
if the required validator is not true.
So now we would show two error messages in this case
and you see must not be empty right from the start,
if I start typing, we only see that with the e-mail address, if I remove that, we're back to must not
be empty.
So this is how you can control the error messages,
this is of course purely optional but it shows you what you can do with this validation package.
You can really decide how you want to adjust the styling of your input, how you want to provide feedback
to the user depending on his inputs.